LCLS RF Station Anomaly Candidate Dataset
The RF station anomaly dataset, located here, is composed of several ﬁles.
For both AMPL and AMM, there are three ﬁles: “klys anom dset {type}.h5”,
“candidates {type}.csv”, and “labels {type}.csv”.
The HDF5 ﬁle has two top level HDF5 groups, one forcandidates and one for
samples, corresponding to the anomaly candidates and random samples of the
beam operation respectively. Each top-level group is composed of a number of
subgroups corresponding to the individual examples. The subgroups are named
according to the end time of the anomaly candidate (or randomly sampled
window); the time is stored as nanoseconds since epoch. Each subgroup contains
two datasets called health and bpm. Each dataset is written as a 2D array of
data, where the rows correspond to individual measurements and the columns
correspond to the signal name. The timestamps of the rows are stored as the
attribute index on the dataset; the values denote the number of nanoseconds
past epoch. The column names are stored as the attribute columns on the
dataset. The subgroups within candidates additionally have a group attribute
called klys, which lists the RF station associated with the candidate.
The health dataset stores the RF diagnostic data of the given type over
a period of 3 .5 minutes (which corresponds to the look-back duration of the
algorithm deﬁned in ?? for AMPL). It will have shape ( n, 82) where n is the
number of measurements and 82 is the number of RF stations. Because the RF
station diagnostic data is not beam synchronous, the reporting timestamps are
not aligned with one another nor the beam, meaning n can vary from dataset to
dataset. In particular, it can be assumed that the AMM and AMPL diagnostic
data can be reported with a delay up to roughly 5 seconds. All of the NaN
values correspond to no new data for that RF station at that timestamp, and
the actual value can be assumed to be equal to the last known value. If there
is no good last value, then the RF station was not in use during that period of
time.
The bpm dataset stores the BPM data over a period of roughly 17 seconds
(which corresponds to the look-back duration of the algorithm deﬁned in ??).
It will have shape ( n, 8) where n is the number of pulses and 8 is the number
of signals (2 signals for each of the 4 dispersive BPMs of interest). The num-
ber of pulses n can vary due to the rate recording and pulse-kicking behaviors
mentioned in ??. This BPM data was additionally modiﬁed from the original
raw data by several transforms. First, if the BPM’s TMIT value was below 1 e8,
there was not enough beam to record a reliable value of the dispersion, so the
1
raw data merely repeats the last known value. This often erroneously repeats a
“normal” value, so we artiﬁcially set the dispersive reading to 100 (well outside
its feasible range) when the minimum TMIT condition is violated. Second, we
apply a dispersive scaling to each BPM to place it on the order of beam energy
loss. The scalings are as follows: (BPMS:LTUH:250, 0.125), (BPMS:LTUH:450,
-0.125), (BPMS:DMPH:502, 0.964), and (BPMS:DMPH:693, 0.469).
The candidates CSV ﬁle lists all of the candidates and has the following
columns:
1. start: Earliest time anomaly could have occurred
2. end: Latest time anomaly could have occurred
3. klys: Associated RF station
4. source: Reporting diagnostic signal (AMM or AMPL)
5. corroborate: Can take several diﬀerent values, depending on the what the
other diagnostic signal (AMM if considering AMPL candidates and vice
versa) reports
(a) Missing: other diagnostic signal did not ﬂag this candidate
(b) Reinforced: other diagnostic signal ﬂagged the candidate and sup-
ports the attribution
(c) Disagree: other diagnostic signal ﬂagged the candidate but disagrees
on the RF station attribution
6. corr anomaly list: Lists the associated RF stations and the reporting di-
agnostic source
The labels CSV ﬁle gives the hand-labels for the candidates. Like the can-
didates ﬁle, it has start and end columns. It has two additional columns:
1. is anom: Boolean indicating whether the candidate is an anomaly
2. anom type: Either “f” for Fault, “s” for Sustained anomaly, or blank for
no anomaly
2